#summary Overview of the in-game controls
#labels Featured

= Controls Manual =

*This is not yet finalized or implemented*

The game controls are simple.  There are 2 buttons for interacting with the ball.  The principle behind the game will be timing.  Basic things will be automatic, but skills will require precise timing.

== General ==

=== Controls ===

 * (F) Forward -- up arrow
 * (B) Backward -- down arrow
 * (L) Left -- left arrow
 * (R) Right -- right arrow
 * (S) Soft touch / skill -- ?
 * (H) Hard touch / shoot -- ?

=== Movement ===

Instead of the standard (arrows indicate direction relative to screen) the movement will be relative to the player.

F will move the player forward, L and R to rotate the player, B to slow/stop.  Double-F to sprint, double-L and double-R will turn sharply, and double-B will turn the player around.

=== Goalkeepers ===

Goalkeepers are automatic at all times, except for when (a) they are in possession of the ball, at which point they behave like normal players as long as they have the ball or (b) if called up for a corner or freekick, at which point they behave like normal players until the opposition has the ball under control.

== Offensive Controls ==

_(When the player has the ball)_

=== Aim and Aftertouch ===

On harder passes and shots, it is possible to add aftertouch.  Usually L to curl left, R to curl right, F to be low, and B to be high.  The length of time the direction key is held usually determines the amount of aftertouch.

=== Ball Control ===

Tap S to control and take possession of the ball.  When in possession of the ball, tap S and a direction to nudge the ball in that direction and retain possession.  This is useful for creating space to cross or shoot, and for eluding tackles.  However it also makes you more vulnerable to being tackled.

If sprinting when in possession, the player will automatically repeatedly nudge the ball forwards.

To perform skills when in possession of the ball, press and hold S and a directional combination.

=== Passing ===

Double-S and a direction to make a short pass.  If the player is receiving the ball, double-S will make a 1 touch pass.

Tap H to make a longer low forward pass.

Hold H to make a high, long forward pass.

=== Crossing ===

Running towards the by-line, hold H and a direction towards the box.  The length of time H is held determines how deep the cross will be.

=== Shooting ===

Double-H to shoot.  To aim the shot, hold a direction key during the second H-press - L to aim left, R to aim right, F to aim low, B to aim high.  The length of time the direction key is held determines the extent of the effect i.e. if you hold B too long the shot will go over.

== Defensive ==

_(When the opposition has the ball)_

_TODO!_

== Advanced Controls ==

=== Overhead Kicks ===

Goal is at the bottom of the screen.  If the ball is in the air, near the player and the player is facing away from the goal, the player can jump (A) and shoot (B+D) to execute an over head kick.